Sql Server Always On Availability Group on Kubernetes Deployment

Always On Availability Group
SQL Server Always On Availability Groups provide a flexible option for achieving high availability and fault tolerance at the database level. It provides options to recover from disasters and allows for greater access to data. Before SQL Server 2017, an Always On Availability Group required Windows Server Failover Clustering (WSFC) when running on Windows and Pacemaker / Corosync when running on Linux. WSFC and Pacemaker are cluster managers which provide HA capabilities to the cluster where SQL server is deployed. On Windows clusters, WSFC monitors applications and resources. It automatically identifies and recovers from failure conditions. This capability provides great flexibility in managing the workload within a cluster and improves the overall availability of the system. WSFC has specific hardware and software compatibility requirements. Pacemaker and corosync are the most widely used clustering solution on Linux clusters. Corosync is a group communication system which provides specific guarantees about the total ordering of messages. It is responsible for messaging between nodes and ensures a consistent cluster state. Pacemaker is responsible for managing the resources on top of this cluster state. This is a highly scalable solution for high availability and disaster recovery on Linux.
Read scale out
However, all of this complexity is unnecessary when the architecture demands read scale workloads. In read scale workloads, the availability of the database is not a primary concern. This enables us to not worry about the cluster failover and other requirements for HA and DR. Read-Scale-Out utilizes the additional capacity of read-only replicas instead of sharing the read-write or primary replica. This ensures that read-only workloads like reports, long-running queries, API queries etc, are isolated from the main read-write workload. It also provides a great opportunity for the database to scale out and scale in. It does provide limited DR capabilities using manual failover when the read-only replicas are configured using synchronous commit mode.

Read Scale Availability Group
SQL Server 2017 introduced Read Scale Availability groups which can be deployed without the need for a cluster manager. This architecture provides read-scale only. It doesn’t provide high availability. A Read Scale AG consists of one or more databases that are replicated to one or more SQL Servers and are a unit of failover. The SQL Server where transactions originate is called a primary replica. A SQL Server receiving changes is called a secondary replica. The primary replica is the one that is used to store read/write data. The secondary replica is used to provide read-only access to the data. The primary replica is also used to store logs and other system data. SQL Server will capture transaction log changes on a Primary and transmit them over a separate communication channel (called a database mirroring endpoint) to the Secondary replica. On the Secondary replica, the changes are first hardened to the local transaction log and then separately any necessary redo recovery operations are applied. Failover from a primary server to a secondary server can be performed manually when required.A Read-Only AG can be used to load-balance read workloads, for maintenance jobs such as backups, and consistency checks on the secondary databases.

Synchronization Options
Availability Groups offer two synchronization options to synchronize the secondary replicas with the primary replica.
Synchronous Commit mode : In Synchronous commit mode, a transaction on the primary replica will wait for the transaction to commit on the primary and for log records associated with the transaction to be hardened on the secondary replica.
Asynchronous Commit mode : In Asynchronous commit mode, a transaction on the primary replica will only wait for the transaction to be committed on the primary. It does not wait for transactions to be hardened on the secondary replica.

SQL Server Availability Group buildout
We can build a SQL Server Availability Group on a Kubernetes cluster. The overall design of the build out is below. We are deploying 3 instances of sql server with one instance as primary with read/write and two secondaries as read replicas for read scale out. One of the replicas is synchronized concurrently with the primary replica. The other replica is asynchronously synchronized with the primary replica.

Persistent Storage
Since we are deploying a stateful workload on kubernetes we need to define the necessary storage structures. The cluster needs to provision storage, the pods need to mount the storage provisioned as volumes and a request for the storage should be defined in the manifest as a persistent volume claim. We would need to create these before we can deploy SQL Server on kubernetes.
